readme.md, before:

# Delta Standalone Installer

This repo provides scripts to set up a standalone instance of Delta quickly and easily.
## Prerequisites
Please ensure the following are installed before beginning.

- Go v1.19 or greater (https://go.dev/doc/install)
- Nodejs v1.18 or greater (https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
- Rust v1.49 or greater (https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install)
- Git (https://git-scm.com/downloads)


## Quick-start
Run everything in one command using the boostrapper gist. This will set everything up for you in a directory called `delta-standalone`. No additional steps required.

```bash
curl -s https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jcace/66d3c733c58cc53c2c692af547c875c7/raw/delta-standalone-bootstrap.sh?_=$(uuidgen) \
| bash
```

Make sure you save the **API KEY** output as you'll need it to interact with Delta

```bash
| obtaining a new api key
| your DELTA API key is: ESTXXX-XXX-XXXARY # <- Save this ! 
| >> Please save this key for future requests
```

Then, access the Delta UI at `http://localhost:3000` 

## Updating
Run the script `./delta-standalone/update.sh` to update all repositories to the latest version. It will also rebuild and restart the services. 

### Script Installation
Run the install script `install.sh` . This will clone all repositories, then build and run them.

It will also generate an API key and output it to the terminal. Save this API key as you'll need it when interacting with Delta.


## Important Files
- `delta.env` contains the exported Delta API key. Back up this file. When running any Delta command-line operations, source this file first i.e `source delta.env` 
- `delta-dm.db` is the sqlite db file for Delta DM. Ensure this file is backed up!
- `delta.db` is the sqlite db file for Delta. Ensure this file is backed up!

## Default URLs
- Delta: http://localhost:1414
- Delta-DM: http://localhost:1314
- Delta-DM frontend: http://localhost:3000

Commit message:

feat: stop and start scripts

readme.md, after:

# Delta Standalone Installer

This repo provides scripts to set up a standalone instance of Delta quickly and easily.
## Prerequisites
Please ensure the following are installed before beginning.

- Go v1.19 or greater (https://go.dev/doc/install)
- Nodejs v1.18 or greater (https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
- Rust v1.49 or greater (https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install)
- Git (https://git-scm.com/downloads)


## Quick-start
Run everything in one command using the boostrapper gist. This will set everything up for you in a directory called `delta-standalone`. No additional steps required.

```bash
curl -s https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jcace/66d3c733c58cc53c2c692af547c875c7/raw/delta-standalone-bootstrap.sh?_=$(uuidgen) \
| bash
```

 > or, run the script contained in this repo `./install.sh` 
Make sure you save the **API KEY** output as you'll need it to interact with Delta

```bash
| obtaining a new api key
| your DELTA API key is: ESTXXX-XXX-XXXARY # <- Save this ! 
| >> Please save this key for future requests
```

Then, access the Delta UI at `http://localhost:3000` 

## Updating
Run the script `./delta-standalone/update.sh` to update all repositories to the latest version. It will also rebuild and restart the services. 


## Stopping Delta Standalone
`./stop.sh`

## Restarting Delta Standalone
`./start.sh`

## Important Files
- `delta.env` contains the exported Delta API key. Back up this file. When running any Delta command-line operations, source this file first i.e `source delta.env` 
- `delta-dm.db` is the sqlite db file for Delta DM. Ensure this file is backed up!
- `delta.db` is the sqlite db file for Delta. Ensure this file is backed up!

## Default URLs
- Delta: http://localhost:1414
- Delta-DM: http://localhost:1314
- Delta-DM frontend: http://localhost:3000
